gradle/README.md, before:

## wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties

Keeps track of Gradle version used by androidx. When updating the version a new version prebuilt needs to be added to `tools/external/gradle` repository.

## libs.versions.toml

Keeps track of library and plugin dependencies used by androidx. Adding or updating a library there requires running `./development/importMaven/import_maven_artifacts.py -n myartifact:here:1.0.0`

## verification-keyring.keys

Checked-in [local keyring](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:local-keyring)
that is used to avoid reaching out to key servers whenever a key is required by Gradle to verify an
artifact.

AndroidX only uses human readable `verification-keyring.keys`. Gradle also generates binary
`verification-keyring.gpg`, but it is optional, and thus we do not use it.

In order to add a trusted new key, first add it as a trusted-key to `verification-metadata.xml`.
For example
```
<trusted-key id="012579464d01c06a" group="org.apache"/>
```

This allows Gradle to trust it, but we also need to store the key in `verification-keyring.keys`
and to do that we need to run:
```
./gradlew -M sha256 --export-keys buildOnServer --dry-run
```

This will create `gradle/verification-keyring-dryrun.gpg`, `gradle/verification-keyring-dryrun.keys`,
`gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml`.

Then you will want to run:
```
cp gradle/verification-keyring-dryrun.keys gradle/verification-keyring.keys
```

You can then delete all the `verification-*-dryrun.*` files.

## verification-metadata.xml

[Configuration file for Gradle dependency verification](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sub:verification-metadata) used by androidx to make sure dependencies are [signed with trusted signatures](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:signature-verificationn) and that unsigned artifacts have [expected checksums](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:checksum-verification).

When adding a new artifact
- if it is signed, then follow `verification-keyring.keys` instructions above to add it to trusted-keys
- if it is not signed, then run the following to add generated checksums to `verification-metadata.xml`:

```
./gradlew -M sha256 buildOnServer --dry-run
```

Then you will want to diff `gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml` and
`gradle/verification-metadata.xml` using your favorite tool (e.g. meld) can copy over the entries
that are relevant to your new artifacts.

You can then delete all the `verification-*-dryrun.*` files.

Commit message:

updating gradle/README.md to mention development/update-verification-metadata.sh
for updating dependency verification information

Bug: 223642687
Change-Id: I4382248c5b3f1fbee7d8104974ab3d92e2652f56

gradle/README.md, after:

## wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties

Keeps track of Gradle version used by androidx. When updating the version a new version prebuilt needs to be added to `tools/external/gradle` repository.

## libs.versions.toml

Keeps track of library and plugin dependencies used by androidx. Adding or updating a library there requires running `./development/importMaven/import_maven_artifacts.py -n myartifact:here:1.0.0`

## verification-keyring.keys

Checked-in [local keyring](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:local-keyring)
that is used to avoid reaching out to key servers whenever a key is required by Gradle to verify an
artifact.

AndroidX only uses human readable `verification-keyring.keys`. Gradle also generates binary
`verification-keyring.gpg`, but it is optional, and thus we do not use it.

To update this file, after adding the relevant dependencies to the build, run:
```
development/update-verification-metadata.sh
```

## verification-metadata.xml

[Configuration file for Gradle dependency verification](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sub:verification-metadata) used by androidx to make sure dependencies are [signed with trusted signatures](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:signature-verificationn) and that unsigned artifacts have [expected checksums](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_verification.html#sec:checksum-verification).

When adding a new artifact
- if it is signed, then run:
```
development/update-verification-metadata.sh
```
to trust the signature of the new artifact.

- if it is not signed, then run the following to add generated checksums to `verification-metadata.xml`:

```
./gradlew -M sha256 buildOnServer --dry-run
```

Then you will want to diff `gradle/verification-metadata.dryrun.xml` and
`gradle/verification-metadata.xml` using your favorite tool (e.g. meld) can copy over the entries
that are relevant to your new artifacts.

You can then delete all the `verification-*-dryrun.*` files.
